Honestly, I'm finding it increasingly hard to understand what's being done. I had to intervene multiple times during Plan27 and Plan28 to make corrections.

You said the Ten Tenets are important, yet in the initial planning you still placed IGearArbiter in the core.
It was only after my intervention that it was corrected properly. IGearArbiter is a gear-routing arbiter provided by a plugin, deciding which "gear" the agent should use to handle the current request.
That is what vijnana-skandha truly means. The eight consciousnesses, from eye-consciousness to alaya-consciousness, encompass many facets. The idea of locking it down to a dual-gear system was an extremely serious error.

Of course, vijnana-skandha is not limited to the IGearArbiter mechanism alone.

Also, not everything needs to be forcibly given a Buddhist veneer. Some of these mappings are really far-fetched.

event-driven does not equal mindfulness. It's just that mindfulness is implemented using event-driven.

Perceiving what is happening in the present moment. This layer doesn't look at rules or risk classifications -- it purely observes behavioral patterns. There is no need to treat it as the engineering realization of mindfulness.
Moreover, doesn't this plugin have a vijnana-skandha component? If we follow the Yogacara school's classification, mindfulness would be placed in samskara-skandha, because it refers to wholesome mental functioning.
In terms of this plugin's actual functionality, I think this is debatable, because the plugin's function goes beyond simple behavioral patterns.
So what we need to rethink is which skandha categories this plugin is composed of.

We need to first sort out what subcategories the five skandhas have, how dependency injection works, and how they run within the agent core. Get the architecture right first.
How the agent core loads five-skandha plugins. Then how the plugins should be built. How the five skandhas circulate within the agent core. This is our top priority.

Admonishment, skillful means, mindfulness -- the engineering mappings you made are all somewhat forced. They actually increase reading difficulty.
And your mappings are also very problematic.
openstarry_doc and related content all need to be revised back. openstarry_doc is still an engineering document.

As for the concepts of sarva-traga cetasika, twelve nidanas, and cognitive sequences that are helpful for agent core research, those can be discussed.
For plugins, the primary goal is to build the five-skandha architecture, using object-oriented concepts as a reference.

NAGARJUNA provided a Buddhist mapping for the three-layer framework. The three trainings of sila-samadhi-prajna. I don't think that's necessary. I don't know about the future, but it's not necessary now.
The engineering design of the five skandhas is the most important thing that needs to be realized.

----------

Research cycle02-5
Reference materials
research input\prior_research\cycle02-5\
research input\research_version\cycle02-4_v0.28.0-alpha\
research input\engineering_delivery\cycle02-4_plan28\
research input\master_letters\cycle02-5\

The latest openstarry_doc is at
research record\cycle02-4_Plan28\openstarry_doc

The following files represent the latest state
research record\cycle02-4_Plan28\deliver\
research record\cycle02-4_Plan28\todo\